Captstone Project

Each Major League Soccer (MLS) season an All-Star Team is named to highlight the best players in the league for that season. This project aims to quantify and model the likelihood each player has of being named to the All-Star Team. After selecting a model, how does that compare to the actual players that are selected? 
To accomplish this analysis, preliminary data has been identified from fbref.com. This website contains multiple years of data from MLS that is free and open use from StatsBomb. StatsBomb is a major vendor of data used by teams across the world; however, their paid data is significantly enhanced with a multitude of custom metrics and analytical tools. Free data available includes a range of descriptors for individual players, and teams in addition to a range of performance statistics. Web scraping in python will likely be required to develop a comprehensive data set. Additional data will include all-star lists, other individual play accolades given by MLS, and player contract details such as salary. 
Additional project considerations include the need for feature engineering, handling of circumstances that are unique to professional sports, and potential data leakage. Some areas where feature engineering is expected to be important include injuries, players who change teams pre- or mid-season, and the system in which players are selected to the All-Star Team. In 2022 the 26-player team was selected in three groups: 12 were selected by the All-Star Team’s coach, 2 were selected by the MLS Commissioner, and 12 were selected in a combined vote from fans, media, and players. There are a lot of factors that contribute each of these three types of selections. Including those that are likely not driven by statistical performance. Non-performance metrics will be evaluated for inclusion such as the number of social media followers. Finally, training data will need to be carefully handled to ensure that statistics for that year are only from prior to the All-Star Game. While a strong performance in the second half of the season may impact the following year’s selection, it must be excluded for the current year to avoid data leakage.
Overall, this project aims to predict the likelihood that a player will be selected to the MLS All Star Team in a given year. While anecdotal evidence suggests that players who have the best performance are selected, this project will put that understanding to the test given the complex manner that players are selected. Performance metrics will be the primary focus for model development, but statistics from beyond the field will be considered where needed.  
